Chris peshwa time for Troop sign Arizer
ending guys deliver Azam's petition
Marcus I want to thank you very much for
the opportunity to be here today and for
the opportunity to address the time
waiver community which is certainly such
a progressive and wonderful community
Martin mentioned Stanislav Grof he's the
one of the cofounders with Abraham
Maslow of transpersonal psychology and
he's the foremost authority of
integrating LSD and other psychedelic
substances into the therapeutic process
when I first read realms of the human
unconscious his first book I read it in
1979 I was a brand-new young junior
faculty member at the University as soon
as I read that book I realized that
psychedelics would represent a turning
point a pivot point not only in
psychology but also in philosophy and I
was trained as a philosopher of religion
so I made the decision to begin a
psychedelic voyage I was convinced that
the most important work which would be
done in the near future would be be done
by people riding out of an experiential
basis not simply an intellectual basis
and so I began a process of doing that
experiential work now I have to assume a
certain familiarity with Stan Grof work
I won't try to describe the methodology
of working with psychedelics it's a very
intense methodology it's not tripping
and going to a concert it's working in
very contemplative isolated
circumstances isolated from the world
with eyeshades going deeply within I did
this work over 20 years over 20 years I
did 73 high-dose LSD sessions using stan
grof paradigm I worked for four years
and then I stopped for six years which
are not part of the store
and then I worked very intensely for
another ten years now to do this work I
had to split my life in half on the
outside I continued to be a university
professor I gave my lectures I did the
things that University professors do in
my inner life I began this very intense
journey and I I kept them separate I
kept a firewall between the two I you
couldn't I could not talk about my
psychedelic work with well I talked with
my friends at the University but I never
brought them into my classes I never
brought it to my students it's only
after I've retired from the University
and after I'm passed the statute of
limitations for doing this work because
I stopped this work in 1999 that I'm
able to really bring forward the
philosophical work the philosophical
significance of these experiences and
this is what I'd like to share with you
tonight I am just finishing a book that
I'm calling diamonds from heaven I don't
know whether this is what it will look
like because it's still being considered
by a publisher but in my mind this is
how I've imagined it Ervin Laszlo has
contributed the forward to the book and
what I would like to do is just
basically take you through some of the
highlights of this journey just little
touches little scenarios here and there
along the way and I'd like to emphasize
that I did this work as a philosopher
not as a therapist I wasn't primarily
seeking healing I was seeking knowledge
of how the universe works I saw myself
as pursuing a new philosophical method a
method that was pioneered by William
James in the varieties of religious
experience and this method consists of
basically three steps three stages first
to enter to structurally push the
boundaries of your experience in
carefully structured psychedelic
sessions second to come back and make a
phenomenologically complete and accurate
record of your experiences within 24
hours after every session
and third to critically analyze your
experience to bring it into dialogue
with other fields of knowledge and to
compare it with the experiences of other
psychedelic explorers so this is what
happened now this is only the third time
that I've tried to speak about these
things in public so you'll have to
forgive me if I follow my notes maybe a
little more closely than I might
otherwise do a few comments about method
and then we'll go to the content Oh
interesting the spacing is different
than on my computer most of you are
aware of the difference between low-dose
psycholytic therapy and high-dose
psychedelic therapy when I was doing
this work I saw myself doing basically
an extended series of high-dose
psychedelic therapy the original
protocol in Spring Grove Hospital
restricted psychedelic sessions to a
maximum of three sessions what they were
trying to do was to trigger a near-death
type experience for people who are
approaching their own physical death and
so I saw I thought whatever could be
done three times safely could be done
more time safely what I learned however
was that while I my work always stayed
within the bounds of safety working with
multiple sessions with high doses of LSD
opened up challenges and opportunities
that weren't really considered in the
first early stages of psychedelic
therapy and so looking back over the
course of my work I figured it I had to
have a different name I had to find a
different name for it so I call it
psychedelic exploration the method is
the method of psychedelic therapy
complete isolation working with
eyeshades with a sitter always with the
sitter carefully calibrated music to
pace the stages of the opening and
closing of a session the difference is
the number of sessions involved for me
seventy-three sessions over 20 years
I kept detailed records of all of my
sessions I even tracked the astrological
variables of my sessions looking at the
correlations between transits and my
session experiences I kept meticulous
notes over these years about 400 pages
of raw experiential data and the story
I'm telling in diamonds from heaven and
I call it diamonds from heaven by the
way because I wanted to start at the end
of the story I thought put the title
that indicates where it ends but it took
a long time before the diamonds came in
it isn't really a personal story I mean
it is a personal story but it's not
primarily a personal story this diagram
represents kind of a series of sessions
and they're drawn overlapping to
emphasize that one session pretty much
starts where the second session stopped
and I found that my personal experiences
the healing experiences and insights
into my personal life tended to take
place at the beginning and the end of
these sessions when I was leaving and
coming back into time and space but when
I was in the peak of the experiences
indicated by these large circles after
about the first 12 or 15 sessions I was
operating in a state of consciousness
that was far beyond personal states of
consciousness and that's the story that
I'm trying to tell in diamonds from
heaven that's the philosophically
significant story because that's I think
the story that in some way we all share
it's all part of our collective
inherence and inheritance it's the
cosmological story which is the
important story when one does this work
one goes through many cycles many
iterations of death and rebirth not just
ego death the first circle the this drop
everything below the cross line takes
place below time and space reality
that's that bottom line kind of
represents ego and the first death
rebirth cycle which I've marked with the
astrological glyphs kind of in
recognition of Rickard tarnis and Stan
gross insights into the correlation
between astrological transits and one's
experiences a non-ordinary states which
I only partly affirm my experience as a
firm and then don't confirm but that
first death rebirth takes place at what
Stan calls the perinatal level of
consciousness and one moves into deeper
states of consciousness and then death
and rebirth repeats itself in a deeper
formulation taking you into a deeper
level of reality and a deeper level of
reality Stan Grof follows Ken Wilber in
describing these levels in terms of
psychic subtle causal level reality I
don't have any vested interest in what
scale you use and certainly to
differentiate only three dimensions of
consciousness transpersonal
consciousness is elementary because
there are thousands and thousands
dimensions of consciousness that one
moves into but basically just to give a
suggestion that there are many levels of
consciousness and transpersonal
consciousness and one enters these
levels of consciousness in stages and at
every stage there is a cost which is
exacted there is a depth of surrender
that takes place in the beginning what's
asked is for you to surrender your ego
but there are other types of surrender
that take place at deeper levels of the
journey to draw only one circle is to
oversimplify sometimes these indicate
numbers of sessions entering deeper and
deeper into causal reality there are
cycles within cycles within cycles so
you can marker these all as one cycle
but in fact there were cycles within
cycles within cycles as a journey
continues so the easiest way now is is
just to give you the chapters to show
you the chapters in the book and maybe
share a few comments on each of the
chapters so here are the chapters of
diamonds from heaven crossing the
perinatal plane the ocean of suffering
deep time in the soul initiation into
the universe the greater real of
archetypal reality
benediction of blessings the birth of
the future human and diamond luminosity
now there are some missing chapters as a
methodology chapter and there's a
chapter where I give a typical introduce
to a typical session day but these are
the chapters that carry the content of
the sessions the content of the
experiences the first crossing the
perinatal planed is the easiest to
summarize because it's the one most
people are most familiar with from
reading Stan Grof work one goes through
many fetal experiences when relives ones
experienced in the womb ones relives
ones on birth when go through many
variations of a death and rebirth
process my going through this level took
about two years and ten sessions and in
the end in the ninth and tenth session
the universe in my version of ego death
it just snapped me like a twig the ego
is on the end not very difficult to take
apart it snapped me like a twig because
by turning me into the exact opposite of
everything I had known myself to be I
entered the day as a white middle-class
highly educated philosopher concerned
with the meaning of existence and it
just took all of those variables and
reversed them I went in for hours and
hours experiencing the lives of women
and women's of color from multiple
cultures around the world women who were
poor women who had no interest in
philosophy whatsoever and yet I was all
of these things I was all of these
beings lives it was terribly frightening
for it was just scared me to death it
was the perfect hell for a male
philosopher there's nothing wrong with
being a woman of course and there's
nothing wrong with being poor and
there's nothing being wrong with being
not interested in philosophy the issue
is it was my identification with my
maleness my identification with my
middle class whatever whatever which was
the problem is what the universe had to
break
in me and the message was not simply
recover your lives as women because I
know I've had former lives as women this
was different this was where you're
going gender does not exist let go so as
part of my entry into deeper states of
consciousness my identity as a male was
taken from me and when I was surrendered
and when it was taken from me I entered
into the most glorious experience of
womanhood I experienced hundreds and
hundreds of women I experienced all the
aspects of female experiences that I
could imagine I conceived I gave birth I
laughed at my husband's I wish every man
could have the experience of having such
a deep experience of women's lies when I
went into the next phase the next two
years of work I entered a domain of
extraordinary collective suffering
I entered systematically deeper and
deeper and deeper I was taken into just
an orgy of pain and suffering it seemed
to comprise all the wars of history all
the droughts all the famines it was just
it was a true ordeal in the beginning I
thought that this represented a
deepening of ego death I thought that
somehow pieces of my ego had slipped
through the first death and this was
somehow a collective this collective
suffering represented a deepening of ego
death but eventually this went on for so
long and it involves so many thousands
and hundreds of thousands of beings that
I came to a different conclusion the
conclusion I came to was that somehow
these sessions were using something was
using my sessions not to heal my private
person it wasn't about healing my
private life it was about trying to heal
the collective psyche of the human race
that somehow all the trauma of all those
wars and all that violence through
history has launched itself into the
collective psyche
at least in this particular context one
of the ways that the universe was trying
to heal the human species was in these
expanded states of consciousness
beginning to siphon and draw out of it
through this awareness the pain of the
human species and transform that pain
and bring it into the light
now psychedelic sessions have two halves
there is the first half which is the
cleansing half where I was experiencing
this ocean of suffering and then there's
the second half you go through a certain
amount of work and you the suffering
comes to a culmination and after that
the rest of the session you're spun into
positive ecstatic trance personal spaces
the ocean of suffering lasted two years
but actually there was one year of work
then I took a six-year break and then I
started another ten years of work and
the ocean of suffering when I resumed my
work six years later started exactly
where it had stopped six years before
which I think is an indication of the
precision and the intentionality of the
intelligence that we are engaging in
these deep states of consciousness when
I came through the ocean of suffering in
the first half the first year I entered
into what I call deep time in the soul I
had a series of experiences in which I
experienced my entire life from
beginning to end
complete I experienced the distilled
essence of everything that I was in the
process of becoming and everything that
I had become it was my entire life
complete start to finish and it I kept
coming back to it again and again and
again the same system filled opening up
layers more and more layers I began to
have insights into the people I was
related to to my wife to the family
members the first time I entered this
state when I came out of it I couldn't
remember any of it
I it was the most meaningful experience
of my life but I couldn't remember it
when I went back into it a second and a
third and a fourth time however I began
to remember more and more I could hold
on to more and more of the experiences
and this is an important histological
point when you enter these states of
consciousness you in the beginning will
enter into new states of consciousness
which are so cognitively original you
can't hold on to it and this is where I
think people talk about ineffability but
if you keep going back to the same state
of consciousness again and again and
again you will remember more and more
you literally have to teach yourself how
to stay conscious in these deep states
of consciousness and you can teach
yourself to stay conscious in these deep
states of consciousness it involves
tremendous purification you you go
through one level of purification after
another but you can go through and
remain conscious six years later when
the ocean when I entered my work again
and the ocean of suffering resumed that
time when I went into the ecstatic
portion of the experience as ice it
started in a completely different space
with no explanation I entered into what
I call the initiation into the universe
a series of sessions that took me deeper
and deeper into the universe and gave me
a carefully calibrated series of
instructions it was like going to course
except in this case the professor was
the universe itself now I give my
sessions names to help me remember them
when I try to give them a name that
represents the pith of each session and
I break my sessions down into bullet
points I'm trying to remember the entire
session in the entire journey and so
these are the names of the sessions that
I'm addressing in initiation into the
universe well sorry find relations
forgot that one okay all right
initiation into the universe
you and I creating so it's taken back
into the original point point of
creation the cosmic tour some of these
are represented you if you heard these
names before they're in dark night early
dawn the Council of Elders dying into
oneness was a session of repeatedly
dying a deeper and deeper and deeper
into oneness the master plan was a the
first of a series of visions that took
place over many years in which I was
being shown what the universe's agenda
was for the human race I know it sounds
arrogant
it sounds like ego run amok to say that
but in my experience what I was being
shown was what the evolutionary
trajectory was of humanity and what the
evolutionary agenda was for Humanity
eventually the ocean of suffering
reached a level of intensity it's hard
to describe it culminated in what I call
healing the collective wound just a
massive huge purification process of
collective healing and when that finish
it spun me into an unprecedented a new
level of reality a level of reality that
I call archetypal reality the greater
real of archetype of reality when I
first entered archetypal reality my
identity as a human being began to fall
away from me I found that there is a an
identity that we have as a human being
that is deeper than the identity we have
as a specific human being and to enter
into archetypal reality I literally had
to leave behind the entire history of
human race and the not just my personal
history but I had to leave behind the
conditions of human consciousness images
an image like being in the space station
orbiting above the earth I entered a
state of consciousness that was beyond
the collective psyche
I was being worked with for months being
taught how to experience how reality
works at that level beyond our katha
beyond the collective psyche in my
experience there were two levels of
reality that I experienced at that
archetypal level one of them at the high
subtle level one of it the low subtle
level at the high syllable which i think
of as kind of the platonic level I
encountered living forms that were
responsible for creating space-time and
the core structures of space-time they
were vast they were huge my mind imaged
them like galaxies billions of
light-years across they were just
enormous I could not wrap my mind around
them they were like there were
archetypes but they were not like
Plato's archetypes there were not
eternal ideas in on mind of an
unchanging God they were living forms
that were changing but over vast tracts
of time subsequently I went into lower
subtle liberal reality which is more of
a Jungian kind of level I entered into
the living tissue of the collective
psyche I had many experiences over and
over again of the wholeness that the
human psyche represents that it is even
the human body I had experiences of the
archetype of the body that all of us are
fractal manifestations of aspects of and
I experienced how each of us in healing
our individual diseases is contributing
to the archetypal structure of our human
body as it becomes stronger and stronger
through history I began to have
experiences of reincarnation but as a
collective process I had always imaged
reincarnation as an individual process
where we individually are developing our
souls journey but I began to have
experiences of vast of the human race as
a single organism incarnated
intelligently creatively in ten
ashlee generation by generation I was in
working in deep time experiencing the
pulse of humanity self evolution through
incarnation of billions and billions of
beings every century just moving it was
both simultaneously a numinous
experience and an absolutely devastating
experience at the same time to
experience all of humanity with all the
experiences that all of us are going
through in every generation to
experience that from the perspective of
the unified intelligence that was
manifesting as the species and evolving
the species farther and farther through
time it was one of it gave me a
completely expanded horizon of the
intelligence of the universe after
spending 18 months exploring archetypal
reality which is not long and I went
through it with very big steps so what
my description is very incomplete of the
totality of that reality I entered a
year of extraordinary blessings it was a
I called it the benediction of blessings
it was one blessing after another for an
entire year these are the names of the
sessions oh I've got to keep up with my
notes a little bit more these are the
sessions I dealt with an archetype of
reality let me jump back there for just
a second notice how much cleansing is
involved even when you're working at
such a deep level of consciousness
session 28 was an extraordinarily
positive blessing it was my first
contact with causal reality I touched
this extraordinarily beautiful ecstatic
state of consciousness I was only there
for 30 minutes but the next three
sessions over six months were just
grueling ordeals of detoxification and
purification
what I came to understand is each deeper
state of consciousness is a higher level
of energy and when you enter a deeper
state of consciousness you you have to
acclimate to that higher level of energy
otherwise your your experiences there
will be fragmented you'll be chaotically
confused and so just that one touch of
causal reality it took three sessions
hours and hours of physical
psychological detoxification in order
for me to be able to return to that
state of consciousness so I could return
to it more clearly so I could stay more
cognitively coherent in that state this
is a pattern that repeats itself over
and over and over again as you go deeper
and deeper into the universe so much so
that I began to dread the session after
every major breakthrough
there was a carrying out the garbage
quality every time I broke through into
a new luminous state of consciousness
the next sessions were chest oh just
terribly difficult now now I can go into
the benediction of blessings I present
four sessions in the book each of these
was different the forest was an
experience of oneness Shunyata emptiness
it was like no present no self present
in me no self present any in the world
it's an absolute transparency to the
totality of life as a living singularity
it was a deep entry into causal reality
singing the universe away
jumping over singing the universe way
was an entering into the primal void it
was an entering into the the Buddha
Wolman satchitananda it was the the
primal fertile void that underlies all
manifest existence Jesus's blood was an
experience of overwhelming experience of
cosmic love it's just being drenched in
you've never been loved until you've
been loved like God you know it's just
just overwhelming experience of love
deeper than anything I'd ever
experienced before let me mention the
birth of the diamond soul just a little
bit longer because it'll come up again
later in the sessions eleven years
previous I had had the experience of my
life as a completed whole start to
finish but in the fortieth session I
began to experience the integration of
all my former lives they were coming in
it was like winding a string and around
a kite spool all my former lives are
coming in fast and furious and it was
like winding a string of white light on
the kite spool and when it hit a certain
critical mass it exploded all those
individual lives fused into one life and
they exploded it was my first contact
with what I would call diamond
luminosity my heart just ruptured and
exploded my consciousness jumped far
beyond any consciousness of any
individual life and I think what I
experienced at that day was where
reincarnation is taking humanity
reincarnation is not adding a little bit
lifetime by lifetime adding a few more
qualities a few more capacities lifetime
by lifetime reincarnation is taking us
into I think eventually taking us into a
point where all of our former lives all
of our history all of our learning will
fuse and when it fuses it lifts us into
the next step in human evolution the
soul literally will wake up on earth
because I think reincarnation we die our
mind gets large we are born we contract
to a small consciousness we go from the
soul to the ego the soul to the ego but
if we keep this up for thousands of
years sooner or later sooner or later
the soul is going to wake up on earth
and when that happens everything changes
because the soul experiences life
differently than the ego does the soul
experiences a depth of connection with
other beings because we've all we've
we've been in each other's lives for
centuries and centuries the soul has a
different relationship to the earth
because the soul knows that the earth
that it leaves will be the earth it's
going to inherit in its next incarnation
so it has a whole different relationship
to the issues of ecology and caretaking
of the earth where the sessions went
next chronologically was into the
diamond luminosity work but before I go
into that I need to backtrack a little
bit and talk about the birth of the few
future human when I started this work I
never imagined that what I'm about to
describe to you would become part of it
I was thinking that this I was doing
this work from my personal healing for
my personal transformation but my
personal enlightenment whatever but what
happened was I started in the twenty
third session and in multiple sessions
over the course of the years I started
to have repeated visions of the human
race the the what was happening to the
human race and I think this is a natural
progression because when you die as an
individual when you die as an ego and
your consciousness opens it doesn't just
open into the oneness of God it opens up
into the species that you are into the
life of the species and just like we
have a feeling of our individual age you
enter into the age of your species and I
was repeatedly shown that the human
species is coming into a time of a
tremendous exponential explosion in its
capacity we were coming into a time of
great awakening so in this chapter I
present what are six visions that I call
the visions of awakening visions that I
pull out of all these other sessions
that I've already presented and I just
kind of weave them together to tell
to show the coherent story the story of
this Great Awakening the story of this
birth that we are coming into and I had
seen over for years this story but it
never showed me how it was going to pull
it off I never saw how we were going to
make this jump in consciousness and then
in 1995 a week before Christmas I went
into I was expecting to go I was in the
diamond luminosity work I was expecting
to go one more time into the diamond
luminosity state but instead the
universe threw me far into deep time far
into humanity's future and it gave me
the experience of the death and rebirth
of our species at a collective level
there was nothing personal about my
experience i-i-i was the human species i
was the psyche of the planet as a whole
i had dissolved into the collective
psyche and i experienced a death that
took place at that level it was a
near-death experience but for the
species there was a time we were
overtaken by conditions it was a loss of
control it was a loss of a
deconstruction it was a time of great
suffering i think the 21st century is
going to be the beginning of the dark
night of our collective soul it is going
to be the time of the great undoing
we're going to lose control we've
postponed making the important in
environmental ecological cultural
decisions so many times that i think
there's no avoiding the fact that we are
coming to a time of a great mobile
systems crisis and just when it had
reached it's worse just when it was at
its worse it passed the storm passed
like a hurricane going over an island
and when we began to collect ourselves
to pick ourselves off of the ground
there was an exponential growth of light
within the human species an exponential
growth in intelligence in ideas in
creativity in social formulations in
social formats new families were
springing up
I think that this process that we are
going through is leading us not simply
to recreate our culture and recreate
society and decreed a new technology and
a new economy
it's literally a transformation that is
taking place at the core of the
collective psyche our collective psyche
is going to make a shift into a new
foundation and after that point everyone
born a human being is going to be
operating out of a new foundation I
think we truly are becoming a species of
Buddhas a species of Christ and prophets
after the benediction of blessings
I was completely content I mean I the
universe had asked me to give something
in the ocean of suffering and I gave it
and it rewarded me with more joy than I
could ever imagine it was just an
overwhelming joy I had known God I I had
known the fertile void it was it was a
philosopher's dream come true I had no
idea where things would go but there
were still five years ahead on the
journey and where it went it took me
into after one more death and rebirth
cycle it took me into an extraordinarily
hyper clear state of consciousness it
took me into the light that I came to
call diamond luminosity it's what the
Buddhists call dharmakaya the absolute
clear light of being now I had known
light many times before light comes in
light had come in at the subtle level of
consciousness light had come in and many
different dimensions but this is a
different order of light when I call it
the diamond light I'm not simply using a
metaphor to describe the light I'm
trying to describe a particular quality
of light an ultra clear super
luminescent just clear beyond
imagination
I entered the diamond luminosity four
times in the next four years
out of twenty five sessions only four
times did I enter the diamond luminosity
these are the names that I gave these
sessions in between each entry into the
diamond luminosity as you can imagine
tremendous purification tremendous
detoxification healing the system just
but then I would get spun into another
experience of this diamond light
there were two movements in this process
there was a progressive entering deeper
and deeper into the diamond luminosity
into the 50th session was the deepest I
ever went into the diamond luminosity I
was in I was in a state of deep
absorption into pure light I was light
my boundaries are lost entirely I was as
I was as happiest you can imagine a
person being and just at that moment
something happened that changed my
entire understanding of life the my
visual field pivoted 90 degrees and in
the far distance I saw a reality that
was as far beyond where I was as where I
was in the diamond light was beyond
earth time-space and in that reality I
saw light and I was hit by a ray of
light from that reality it hit me and it
just shattered me I call it the absolute
light just to give it a name and that's
when I understood that it's an infinite
progression there is no end to the
journey there is no reaching the end of
God the end of the divine like many of
us I had adopted the belief that there
was an end to this journey it had been
described differently by different
people oneness with God or the super
cosmic void entering the super cosmic
void but I had entered the divine
oneness many times and I had learned
that there were dimensions of oneness
there are different variations within
there are depths of one to oneness and I
had entered the primal void but I
learned that there are even depths of
void within void but I had always
assumed that there was still an end I
could get to an end that would be the
destiny the the final or stopping point
and this taught me it's an infinite
progression it there there is no
stopping point
the divine is infinitely large and
that's why if I were doing it over again
I wouldn't use the same method that I'd
used before I would be gentler with
myself I would not push myself so hard
to enter so deep so fast even though 20
years may not be very fast I would be
gentler with myself because now I know
that the goal of this work is not to try
to reach some state some condition the
goal of this work is to open up and to
let in as much of the divine into you as
you possibly can and to allow it to
transform your life and to transform
your existence and everything that you
can do with that awareness in life the
last years works final visions these are
the sessions that I address in the book
the last two visions the last two
sessions were what I call the goodbye
sessions I didn't know I was stopping
this work I was thought I was going to
continue to do it but the consciousness
that had always guided my sessions it
choreographed the ending of our work
time together before I knew what was
happening it gave me an overview of my
entire life's work it showed me in the
end and this fruits of my labor how all
of my work fit together what the
correlations were and I used the
experiences in that session to actually
organize the telling of the story in
diamonds from heaven and then he gave me
a series of last instructions before we
parted but before that happened there
was one serious piece of work to do
chapter 7 seventh session seventy on
that session the universe put me through
a strip down which was one of the
hardest most deepest one of the deepest
most demanding strip downs that I've
ever been anywhere on the journey I
would not have believed it would have
been possible to go through so many
layers of dying in death and just
complete loose loss of all reality as I
went through in this session
and after going through this for an hour
and a half or two hours that spun me out
into a condition as very clear state of
consciousness and it to make a long
story short since I'm already at the end
of my time I'm past time I'm sorry it
took me deeper into deep time than it
had ever taken me before it took me deep
deep into a time frame somewhere on the
order of a hundred two hundred thousand
years and it gave me a series of
experiences that were the culmination of
the birth of the future human it gave me
the capstone of the story of the the
master story of where we're going it
gave me the deepest experience that I
had of the being that we are becoming it
was as if I was taken into the future
and allowed to try on for size the being
that the creative intelligence of the
universe is bringing forward on our
planet such a magnificent being just an
extraordinary being it's so important
that we hold a vision of where we're
going of what is actually happening
because as the dark shadows gather in
this century in the century ahead
we could lose ourselves in despair
we could lose ourselves in hopelessness
if we don't understand that we are in
labor we are in labor and we are giving
birth and we're not simply giving birth
to a slightly improved version of
ourselves we are giving birth to an
extraordinary child a child that has
never existed as a species on this
planet before one of the other things
this experience it taught me was they
gave me a series of lessons and it
taught me something that was a missing
piece to everything that I had been
given before about the birth of the
future human it told me that it showed
me that we are built for speed our
species is built for speed we have a
tendency to think of human nature you
know kind of as a staffing human nature
this human nature that but really if you
step back into an expanded time frame
and if you think in terms of
reincarnation you think in terms of all
the lives that we are winding around
and then this gathering of knowledge
which is taking place in the center in
the archetypal center when this center
shifts there is an exponential jump and
when you look at the whole evolutionary
dynamic that evolution that
reincarnation makes possible it becomes
clear that we are carrying our history
on our backs in much smaller packs than
we had then we might think if we didn't
take this large perspective we are built
for speed the human species is built for
speed we are built for evolutionary
acceleration and we are in a
tremendously accelerated spit time of
history right now and before any of us
were born before we were born we knew
what we were getting into
we knew we chose we knew what was
happening to the human race we knew what
a hard time this century was going to be
and we made a choice to participate in
this time in history to be part of this
exciting and dynamic if difficult but
this important progression now I'm done
my time is done I can't go on further I
will just very quickly say when I
stopped I stopped my sessions for two
reasons for pain because my subtle
energy system was overexcited was kind
of I was running too much energy even
though I had done I took a lot of yoga
didn't meditation did all the things you
try to do to take care of yourself but
the main reason I stopped was heartache
I literally reached a point where I
could not take coming back I could not
take coming back out of the divine once
you have dissolved completely into light
once you have known the joy of being
light of experiencing reality a slight
time-space reality can begin to feel
kind of dried up and in fact when I
stopped my sessions I entered a period
of deep deep sadness I did a good job
integrating my sessions as I went I
really worked hard on integral
my sessions but when I stopped my
sessions I entered a deep deep
existential sadness and I know that
near-death episode people have this
experience I knew that Carl Jung had
this experience in the hospital I knew
it was not alone in this but I had
entered so deeply into the divine
expanse that my wound was particularly
deep eventually I reached a point where
I knew I was just waiting to die
I was just waiting I was taking care of
my family I was doing my lectures I was
you know I was doing my taking care of
my responsibilities but in my heart of
hearts I was just waiting to die so that
I could return to my beloved eventually
I began to realize that's that's not
right this is not a good way to live
it's not not the way this work is
supposed to go it's not good to be
living your life waiting to die so I
made a determined effort to bring myself
into my historical existence again to
ground myself into time and space I
learned that somewhere along the way I
made a mistake the mistake I made was
that I had lost the balance between
transcendence and imminence I had thrown
myself so deeply into divine
transcendence that I lost my footing
inside the imminent divine inside the
body of God inside the physical presence
of God that we all are
it took me about 10 years to get myself
fully grounded back in time and space
and fully kind of comfortable back in
time-space again and in this respect my
experience on this journey is a
cautionary tale it's not simply like you
know the hero's journey where you go
when you have an adventure and you bring
back with good news it's a cautionary
tale
it's transcendence is a it's a
complicated paradoxical thing a little
bit of transcendence is good it's
healing it can it can help us understand
who we are and what we
and where we are and what here is but
too much transcendence can cause you to
lose sight of an equally important fact
the fact that the physical world is the
manifest body of the divine so thank you
very much for letting me tell my story
to you
[Applause]
you